I even remember the first night we were
driving to the countryside with another
activist he asked me if I would have
something with a man that is in a
relationship I said no very clearly and
explained my reasons then he proceeded
to explain how he and his girlfriend are
in an open relationship and tried to
convince me how great it is to be with
multiple people back to the third night
when he asked if he could kiss me I said
no but he kept asking to kiss me and
kept on pushing I was nervous
uncomfortable and trying to find a
reason to escape from the situation okay
I want to point something out here
women aren't on/off switches they don't
just instantly get turned on and
especially young women I think this
woman's 18 years old
eighteen years old they played hard to
get and she's trying to make it seem as
if his behavior Oh being pushy keep at
like where he keeps asking for a kiss
even though she said says no oh that's
abusive you know exploitative behavior
no it's just part of the game a lot of
women play hard to get they like being
chaste and they do this type of stuff
where they're like oh no I don't really
want to kiss you know I'm not interested
and it's just part of the game
some women sometimes Richard not all
women not all the time and for you as a
man in that situation with your biased
perspective do you think you are gonna
pick up on that distinction do you think
it's responsible advice to give men that
if they're in this sort of situation
they should disregard the woman giving
negative signals and that the man should
just be more assertive that the man
should work with the assumption that
she's just quote-unquote playing
hard-to-get do you think the man should
behave as if it is quote unquote just
part of the game I think that's really
terrible advice Richard now you said
most women most women play hard-to-get
and play this game in the 21st century I
don't even think it's ten percent of
women who follow this pattern of
behavior anymore
maybe I mean in the 1950s or 1960s
you know the idea of a coy refusal it
used to be a more common cultural trope
in the Western world I guess but whether
it's ten percent of women who behave
this way ten percent of the time or
sixty percent of women who pay it this
way 60 percent of the time you gotta use
sympathy as an analytical tool here
Richard you've got to think about it
from the woman's perspective now in this
case the woman was 18 years old
it makes it worse
this sort of situation it only differs
by degree it doesn't differ in kind when
you're talking about an 18 year old
woman as opposed to a 30 year old woman
because really you can't have all the
same issues and conflicts in romancing a
30 year old woman as an 18 year old one
but yeah it's worse it's worse it's
several degrees worse because she was 18
Richard can you imagine yourself at age
18 trying to refuse the advances of an
older married woman in this case it's an
older guy who's in an open relationship
estate who's hitting on you who's
pressing you for sex and this woman
chooses to interpret your refusal as you
just playing hard-to-get this woman
chooses to interpret your refusal as coy
and then she's more assertive believing
that it's quote unquote
just part of the game now I can't make
the claim that absolutely zero percent
of women you know followed this pattern
of behavior that he's presenting here as
a justification for this kind of male
pay-for of being more assertive in
disregarding refusal and I can't say
he's your Oh percent of men but the best
advice you can give people is to live
your life as if it's zero percent of
people who are coy in this way as if
zero percent of people say no but mean
yes as if zero percent of people are
just in sincerely playing hard-to-get
you should live your life according to
that better and higher moral standard
for a variety of reasons not just to
relieve the stress and strain on the
people you may be flirting with or
hitting on and that's the part that's
the easiest to sympathize with like you
just think okay what if I were in the
reverse situation what if the I were the
18 year old Miss older guy is flirting
with Newsline the ultimate game is no
gain the ultimate game is when you can
sit down with people and play it
completely straight and open and honest
and it's just hey maybe you're attracted
to me and maybe I'm attracted to you and
maybe we're going to do something about
it and
maybe not and where there is no game
there's no deception and there's no
expectation that the other person is
deceiving you and when you really play
it honestly that way all right we play
in an honest open way with no games then
right away you get a sense of how
sincerely attracted or not attracted the
other person is to you how interested
they are in you and in what way they're
interesting like are they interest in a
relationship were they just interested
in when I stand and what's what's going
on on on their end once I was taking the
bus with my girlfriend this was in
Victoria in Canada and a guy came and
sat next to a girl right next to us it's
not worth describing the whole scenario
but they're four seats that are facing
each other so we all really saw and
heard what one another was saying and
this guy sits down with a girl and he
he's attempting to hit on her part with
her and there are two university
students and they obviously have at
least one class together where they they
know the same professor they're dealing
with some of the same stuff of the class
so the guy comes and he tries to hit on
her and it goes very poorly and then
they both kind of get up and leave
though leave the bus and I said to my
girlfriend Melissa Wow
that's not the way I would have handled
that at all you know in terms of hitting
on a girl me know she would has this do
and she said oh wow you know how how
would you have done it how would you sit
down and you know kind of present this
opportunity woman so I acted out with
Melissa I said oh yeah this so decide
this is how I do it this is what I'd say
you know and I spoke to her exactly I
would speak to hypothetically you know
somebody in that situation and Melissa
immediately got extremely turned on and
flustered she was you know laughing and
she put her hand I managed to stop it
you know you're really you're really
getting me killed us on this buzz but I
said to I said yeah but that's how you
respond because you're attracted to me
like you have chemistry with me you're
drawn to me that's what that's showing
I'm not tricking you into this I'm not
talking you into this you know that's
how you respond someone else wouldn't
spawn that way or someone else would
respond with 50% as much warmth and
someone else would respond in a manner
that's tepid and another person would
respond actually being you know
standoffish
so given the way I told the story at
this point you might think I said
something really charming or really
flirtatious or really forward to Melissa
knock that out and know I was here is
what I said to her you know I said sit
down and say hey I saw you in class
that was good presentation was cut no no
it's like there's nothing here right
listen to this that's it you sit down
make eye contact you know yeah because
the reality is like all you're doing is
like a litmus test you're really just
you really you're showing the person hey
I'm interested in you I like you I want
to talk to you I want to spend time with
you and then how they respond to that is
up to them the ultimate game is no game
and when you play that way in a way
that's honest and open and warm and also
just constructive like hey I'm not gonna
presume what kind of relationship we can
have a lot of time I talk to people and
it's like well look you know maybe you
can be a friend of mine maybe we can be
like intellectual colleagues maybe we
can be like political colleagues but
maybe you're someone I can practice
languages with like I'm studying Chinese
I need people to study Chinese with or
something you know there's more than one
possible outcome to this scenario not
just like either you're the person i
seduce and have children with and get
married to or nothing you know or it's
not not some kind of preset you know
limited number of outcomes or it's it's
it's open in that sense also you're open
as to what this might lead to you're not
prejudging it but you know you really
avoid breaking people's hearts you avoid
breaking your own heart to it say you
don't want to charm someone or
manipulate someone into liking you into
love and you went to sleep with you and
then they wake up the next morning and
regret it and in a sense you don't want
to you don't want to talk yourself into
it within the next day
you know you you might be the one who
wakes up and regrets it part of the game
I wouldn't even consider this behavior
inappropriate and he certainly didn't do
anything illegal he just kept asking if
he could kiss you nothing illegal about
that and I wouldn't even say that's bad
behavior so vegan gains here takes the
next step into absurdity the first part
of his argument is the first part of his
argument is that if a woman refuses a
man should disregard that refusal and be
more assertive because he should regard
this as quote-unquote all part of the
game completely completely secure that
he is suggesting that a man should work
with the assumption that a refusal from
the woman is insincere that she's
playing coy that she's playing hard to
get and that the man's role is to be
more assertive I completely disagree
with that and then he texted takes the
next step into absurdity by claiming
that there's nothing inappropriate about
this that it's not even inappropriate
this is a workplace situation is an
older dude I think he's about 30 with an
18 year old female and they're their
co-workers their colleagues right
they're soliciting donations do this
vegan activism stuff and yeah they're
living in close quarters they're sharing
hotel rooms they're traveling around
going to these vegan activist events and
so on right yeah yeah that's part of it
too but that makes it even worse this is
a co-worker and a colleague you've got
to live in close quarters with what's
the best-case scenario here what's the
best-case outcome for this guy so if she
shuts him down and then you have
awkwardness and hurt feelings for that
reason that's one path if she does
grudgingly sleep with him if he manages
to seduce her then what happens to the
weeks and months after that there's
awkwardness and tension and
inappropriateness in her feelings
Richard is a guy who really just does
not have a lot of real life experience
these things but look age gap
relationships are difficult
delicate age gap relationships in the
workplace between coworkers
Richard - giving terrible advice here
when you say that he did nothing illegal
you may be correct but when you say that
he did nothing inappropriate you are
dead wrong
[Music]